Marcelo was walking along Corrientes Street.
He was crossing Callao in the direction of the obelisk.
If we disregarded air resistance, considered that 6 kilometers per hour is the average walking speed of an individual of his height and assumed that the luck of the traffic lights would be on his side, how long would it take Marcelo to reach the avenue of independence?
It is not a difficult problem for those who have paid minimal attention to secondary physics classes.
It's called uniform rectilinear motion.
To solve the problem we will need to know the distance from Callao to the widest avenue in the world.
Since I do not trust you to take the trouble to read a map of the city, we will make public that, between the avenue that Marcelo was crossing and the one we suppose he will arrive at, there are 7 blocks.
Namely: Rodríguez Peña, Montevideo, Paraná, Uruguay, Talcahuano, Libertad and Cerrito (which is nothing more than a timid immediate parallel to our objective).
Using the false, but universally agreed equivalence of 1 block equals 100 meters, we know that Marcelo is 700 meters from his destination, moving in a straight line at 6 kilometers per hour.
Without the need for formulas or mathematical abstractions we have at our service a wonderful numerical equivalence.
If we know that 6 kilometers is 6000 meters and that an hour has 60 minutes, Marcelo moves at a rate of one block per minute, which has a clear musical parallel in the famous crotchet tempo 60.
Solution to the problem: 7 minutes.
We start the stopwatch and think about the speech we will make in Norway, when after Marcelo fulfills our kinematic prediction in the seventh minute, we will be awarded the Nobel Prize in physics.
The stopwatch reaches 420 seconds when we are finishing mentally designing our first paragraph of glory.
But it's all over when the stopwatch runs over and Marcelo has not yet appeared on the corresponding sidewalk.
Once again, the dynamite prize will be awarded to one of those who risk their lives a hundred meters underground working near a tube through which icy elementary particles travel at thousands of thousands of kilometers per second.
What happened to Marcelo?
Everything quickly becomes clear.
It turns out that the curious Marcelo was walking as we supposed, but at a certain point he felt the call of a book.
Yes, a book reached his soul's ears from one of those bookstores in Corrientes that keep cheap and not so cheap books, some known and others ignored.
Marcelo entered, making himself thin, among furniture arranged at anti-fat distances.
For some time he had been systematically refusing to read books that were easy to sell and he was devoted to those consecrated authors who had made history in literature.
But one day it occurred to him that perhaps there were other lesser-known authors who had written great works.
That is why, from time to time, Marcelo would read one of those books that do not exist in the big bookstores.
Sometimes they were bad, sometimes good, very rarely excellent.
In this case, his hand went to one of the bargain tables and picked up a small book, not very old, barely a hundred pages long.
The author was unknown.
The title, curious.
It was a series of anagrammed stories.
This was strange to Marcelo, who had heard a lot about short stories, tales, novels and essays, but nothing about anagrammed stories.
He opened the cover and saw a scribble written in pencil on the first page that told him that for only the smallest bill, the book could be his.
As he paid the insignificant amount to the long-lived bookseller, he thought how sad it must be for an author to see his own book on one of the bargain tables in a used bookstore at the same price as a triple industrial alfajor.
It was after doing what he had to do in the overcrowded microcentro porteño when Marcelo went down those stairs that took him to the underworld.
He went through the turnstiles paying with the fictitious money he had on his magnetic card and looked for a place in one of the benches along the platforms.
From the nearest tunnel came the serious railway sound of the movement of the rails.
The train stopped and the doors opened.
With a perfect strategy, developed by dint of years of subway travel, Marcelo managed to enter the last car and slid into the center.
He stopped in a well-lit position and opened his recent literary acquisition.
Graciously, he had to make no trouble to keep his balance. So large was the crowd enclosed inside the wagon that his body was immune to the attacks of inertia, which, in trying to throw him to one side or the other, saw its failure consummated when the surrounding bodies contained Marcelo.
It was like reading in a boat, although in this case the boat was himself and the fluid in which he floated was not water, but people.
And it was while swaying to the rhythm of the anthropovaivenes that he began to read his new book, intermittently interrupted by the siren announcing the departure of each station and the truly unbearable noise of the carriage of that hot mobile incubator.
When the sun made its presence known the following Monday, Marcelo had already finished reading.
It is not possible for me to give here any information about the book, nor to quote even a minimal portion of the contents of this series of anagrammed stories.
I do not have the proper authorization from the publisher.
I suppose that those who want to know something about it can take a look at the bookstores downtown.
I can describe the state in which Marcelo found himself after finishing the book. For some reason the unknown literary work had plunged him into a state of profound silence.
He spoke little and nothing... nothing and little.
I didn't know what caused this state of constant introspection until a few days later.
At first glance, one would have said that the book had stirred him to the depths of his soul.
It is known that some books possess certain supernatural powers over sensitive readers.
However, there were two facts that made me doubt.
The first is that Marcelo was neither sad nor happy, he didn't cry, he didn't run, he didn't clap his hands.
He simply switched off.
The second fact is quite interesting and may shed some light on the relationship that took place between our protagonist and the book bought on sale.
Marcelo at the end of the reading threw the book through the air as if it were an Australian boomerang.
The cheap binding fell to the floor after having described a few circles in the air.
It might be a minor detail, but I know very well that Marcelo had, up to that moment, a great respect for books.
Until a second before, no one would have conceived the possibility of him throwing a book in the air.
So it was that, as I followed him around the world in order to tell his story, I began to think that something in that book had made him angry.
Days went by and no change in his condition was noticeable.
Permanent silence.
Constant blank face.
One day he arrived at his house and went straight to the elevator.
Marcelo lived in a building of considerable height in a commercial and densely populated neighborhood.
He walked to the edge of the south-facing terrace and stared at the horizon, totally static.
For God's sake!
What was he thinking?
Had the book driven our protagonist to suicide?
He was going to throw himself off!
For a moment I imagined Marcelo climbing the railing, pretending for a few seconds to be a famous Chinese circus tightrope walker.
I saw how, opening his arms, he let himself be attracted by the mass of the earth and fell irremediably.
I imagined his brain thinking faster than ever, deducing with unobjectionable logic that it was the wrong decision.
It was too late, there was no time to inflate any volunteer fireman's mats.
His body hit the rigid sidewalk with the consistency of ripe fruit.
I heard the crunching of all her bones.
I imagined endless internal bleeding.
People around him screaming in disgust and calling for some street sweeper to clean the sidewalk.
Sad would be the funeral that would carry Marcelo to his final resting place.
It took me a great effort to contain my imagination.
When I was able to come back from my state of shock, I saw Marcelo on the terrace, dead but alive.
I did not have in mind to end his life.
The nervous breakdown I suffered was nothing more than a symptom of my stupid impatience to know the future.
He, when he got bored of staring at the horizon, went downstairs to his apartment on the tenth floor.
I noticed that even as subdued as he was, he was not the same Marcelo who had come up to the terrace.
His eyes projected a certain intent that I did not quite unravel.
The morning after his contemplation of the horizon on the terrace, Marcelo left his house.
But this time he didn't go east as usual.
He headed south.
I learned of his new intentions when he rang the doorbell of a certain small publishing house.
Our non-suicidal protagonist wanted to get information.
More precisely, he wanted to contact the author of the book to blame for his hypomental state.
At that moment I thought that the book had touched the deepest corners of his soul.
As if he were a faithful disciple of Bruce Lee, a connoisseur of the profound teachings of jeet kune do, Marcelo projected all his anger and concentrated it in a single movement that turned out to be a powerful frontal blow.
All the tension accumulated in Marcelo's existence was instantly discharged into the geometric center of Rodrigo's face, producing a martial black hole that threw the author of the anagrammed stories a few meters backwards.
With his need now satisfied, Marcelo once again showed his usual features, color returned to his face and announced his return to the world.
Passing by Rodrigo's body he walked away towards his house whistling the melody of a tango.
Marcelo was the same as before.
His friends never knew about his encounter with the unknown writer.
His life returned to the normal routine and before long he was reading new books.
When Rodrigo got up from the floor, he squeezed his nostrils to stop the bleeding that had already painted his shirt.
The pain confirmed a fracture.
He walked to the nearest hospital and with the hand that did not press his nose he phoned home to make his strange situation known.
Meanwhile, Rodrigo thought he had made a mistake.
The events that had just occurred proved that he was not the one who was crazy.
He laughed with a hearty laugh and noticed that the passersby around him looked at him strangely.
They think I'm the crazy one, he thought.
And the reality is that anyone who sees an individual with a broken nose, stopping his bleeding with one hand, talking on the phone with the other, and laughing loudly, would think he was mentally deranged.
He was already close to the hospital when his grace was extinguished.
And while waiting to be attended to by someone or something, he began to draw the plot of a new story.
He designed in his head a crazy character who would do justice by killing liars with an elementary particle cannon.
Not an hour had passed since Marcelo hit him and he was already thinking about his next series of anagrammed stories.
We hope, for your safety, that Marcelo never finds it on offer.
