Do you feel that buzzing sound? No. Listen! It's almost a roar. Yes, it's water. Come, we'd better get away from the tsunami.
Sometimes it rains a lot. Sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes the weather waits for plants and animals to die, and makes it rain when it's useless.
I opened the cold faucet and burned my hand. The pipes were too hot. Thermal inertia.
I had just come out and was already being sucked in again. The same thing again. Although sometimes I could stay out a little longer. Poor serotonin.
Admission. A liquid wets me, I move. Compression. I fight with it. Explosion. Something pushes me down. Escape. The liquid disappears.
There they are looking at me, waiting for a response. A bead of sweat slides down my forehead. It's a fact. I'm not going to pass the exam.
As I rounded the corner I met him. I didn't want to see him, but he was there. I followed protocol. I took his hat. Yes, I stole it.
A star caught the king's eye. He immediately understood its meaning. He asked for his horse. The journey to Bethlehem was going to be a long one.
It's getting harder and harder to move my fingers. I begin to despair. My arms are slowly going numb. I am dying, frozen.
I walked down the street like everyone else. First one foot, then the other. But because I was so big I was breaking the sidewalks and causing an earthquake.
We hit the atmosphere. It slows us down and burns us at the same time. When we hit the ground, it crushes us. Inhospitable planet.
I am slowly going blind. It was partly possible that it could happen. It is not without risk to read books of ash, printed with fire.
Little by little I felt that the cold was getting warmer. This time I was going to be able to sleep well, even if it was hard to breathe with it on me.
I find it hard to understand this syntax. Reading the sentence is difficult. In order the ideas I have but I say them with hyperbaton.
The water is very cloudy. But very cloudy. I think I'm dissolving in the pool.
The air was fresh, pleasant. The immensity of the landscape framed the confrontation. Not even the sun, with all its fury, could stop the slaughter.
The heat was fearsome, but he knew better than to turn on the air conditioning. When he did, the whole city went dark.
The record played louder and louder, almost dazing me. I can't stand it. I shoot. The waiter was in front of the speaker, now blood red.
The roar was very violent. It happened in the middle of the toast, like every year. The birth of hope coincides with the firecrackers.
He kicked her hard, hurting her. But he also stroked her rhythmically with his hands. No doubt, he was a contradictory swimmer.
Mystery sometimes appears. Without warning. I don't know if it happens to everyone. Maybe he takes a walk around the house just because he likes the way I make coffee.
The mystery was the statistics. He had done all the calculations, but the coin always landed on the same side.
The bird was small. Still, the way it perched on that basalt wall was imposing. You would envy his foamy flights.
He thought a lot about killing himself. Much more about how to do it. He couldn't bear not to be touched anymore. He couldn't kill himself. Poor piano...
The first sound was isolated. The second came close to the third. The others were confused with each other. They sounded louder. Hail storm.
The rhythm was metronomic. So precise it was intolerable. It's amazing that a worn-out little horn has so much musical training.
The silence is total. Yet I feel the air exhaled by someone at my back. Also a whisper. Death came looking for me.
The sound of the keys was projected in the room. First one sentence, then another. With that strange cadence that only computers have.
The sound originated right in front of me, but it seemed to come from far away. From the north, maybe even from the past. Original sound.
He held the fate of a country in his hands. He looked worried when he dropped the envelope into that box.
The eardrum in my ear burst. To think I had taken special care of myself. Who knew the queen of the night could do this to me.
The hum of the engine was constant, monotonous. From the outside it must have sounded different. In the cockpit it didn't sound like the plane was falling.
The hum is constant. The typical noise of an electric motor. Something is spinning. An orange has just died. Murder weapon: a juicer.
She slept in bed. She showed an enviable serenity. She stopped her ears and wagged her tail. Now she was looking at me as a pet.
She was aggressive. She wore out a lot. She had to round every edge. She sacrificed herself. That's the life of sandpaper.
She could no longer hold on. She had no strength. There were many men in the house, although none of them remembered to water the poor plant.
I began to feel the lack of oxygen. My lungs were screaming for something I could not give them. End of the pool.
I was white. I hated black people. Not because I was racist but because of the war. He was approaching death. He would be resurrected in the next game.
It was hard to be calm while the ball was flying. Since it had left my hand its fate was sealed. I was lucky. It was double.
It was her breasts. Those that determined which part of the forces coincided with the direction of the object's movement. Work and energy.
It's too late to regret. It is always a risk to walk without sleep. I see my body on the ground. The truck tore out his soul.
He listened intrigued. He had heard her on the subway. He thought about the look in that woman's eyes. It still made him uncomfortable. It was the Consecration of Spring.
He heard an intermittent, shadowy sound. It echoes in a distant and hollow way. I better stop to turn off the faucet.
I was extremely surprised. All the cars I saw had the same license plate in the back and in the front. What a coincidence.
He stretched the dough. He put butter on it. He stretched the dough. He larded it. She rolled out the dough. Puff pastry does have an iterative elaboration.
I'm convinced I live in the wrong era. It's the only thing that explains why I have a cell phone surrounded by soldiers in sword and armor.
I am infinitely uncomfortable. I look at my left hand. I move my right. I blunt the viola as only I can.
Exactly. That's what I'm talking about. That's just what I was saying. Nothing. You don't find it interesting?
It flamed caressing the sky. I could contemplate it serenely, for a moment. It was dry. I had to take it down. That's how it is with T-shirts.
It drifted down an asphalt avenue. The water drowned its alarm without allowing it to call for help. Poor car, it couldn't swim.
I braked little by little, until I came to a complete stop. I accelerated backwards until I stood still. That's how the hammock chair was.
It spun and spun, and spun very fast. Nobody cared about its dizziness. If they turned it off, it was because no one wanted wind anymore. Poor fan.
Thank goodness for that. The year is coming to an end. I still don't get a vacation. Another round. This planet thing is killing me.
Forward. Backwards. Forward, backward. The cycle repeated itself indefinitely as the blade sought to separate the head from the body.
I had been trying for a while. Breaching the lock was difficult. He felt a click. He could not open it. The door had no hinges.
I balance standing on the board. In the summer I don't worry so much, but this is the first time I've ridden a polar wave.
I make another attempt. With great concentration I use all my strength. I can't do it. I look at it with hatred. I try again, but the finger doesn't move.
There is someone in the next room. I don't know who it is. I don't know what it is. I may never know. Although...
There are a lot of words that sound good, though I can't bring myself to put them here. I don't remember how to spell them.
You have to move the bow, thinks the violist. That way the court on the beach is a little more suitable for dribbling, until the tide comes in.
He would swim, always straight ahead. He swam back, always to the right. He would swim. And to think that swimming did not bore him.
Countless sparks igniting synchronously. A synaptic spectacle. It happens whenever the brain remembers.
You will breathe in deeply. Even more. Now open your mouth wide. Let the air escape. You know how to yawn.
I took another breath of air. I could almost feel the gaseous exchange in my lungs. The smoke was about to overcome me.
I was trying to study again and again, but I was bored. More and more bored. I couldn't stop thinking about her, the four-month subject.
I tried to speed up. A pedal came off. My bike stopped being transportation and turned into a killing machine. It tried to kill me.
The house is very dark. I can't guess when I'm going to hit something. I kick something. I would have been better off paying the electric bill.
The corner was close now, but it was still hard to get to. He was running faster than me. Hopefully not fast enough to catch me.
People were running trying to get out. Not everyone was running as fast. The slow ones stayed under the crowd. They didn't last long.
The moon tries to force me to sleep. What I write claims to be concluded. It would be impossible if I couldn't write with my eyes closed.
The light of the bar was tendentious. The only table that could be distinguished was that of that man. The man with the face like a potato chip.
He was staring at her. With such a force that the air between her and him felt uncomfortable. Still, she denied him listening to the play.
Night is a dark thing, but never as dark as a basement. At least like this one I've been locked in for so many years.
The ball bounced as it always did. But as it did inside a piano, it composed a musical piece.
The blood was diluted by the heat. It fell into a small ditch. It's creepy to roast.
I throw a new ball. It stings again and again. It takes a while to stop, far from the previous one. Again the butterfly effect wins me over.
Beads of sweat trickled down his forehead. The tension was at its peak. He could not afford to fail that exam again.
The words pass without stopping. They are the last ones. The end point of the novel cheers me up for a moment, but I don't have to read anymore.
It tickled him and he couldn't help but cry out. The rubbing of her hair was unbearable. But his sacrifice was for the world, generous violin.
He read the book with attention. I was enjoying those pages like crazy. It had not happened to me before. Before, when I had not yet written it.
The atoms were shaking less and less. Meanwhile, the person they constituted was suffering from the cold. Every cell was trembling.
My hand hurts. It is too late now. I should never have wondered what happens if you hammer your fingers.
I was amazed at how they were sharing their energy. When one stopped, the other had its maximum amplitude. That's what coupled pendulums are like.
My head went forward. It didn't go forward because of my neck muscles. The next braking will be the last. Dead and contracted.
I look to the side. Just one. Hearing the horn, I realize I made a mistake, but it's too late.
My fingers try to clamp the glass, but my hand is no longer capable. Maybe it's been enough whiskey.
Mysterious as always. That's how she looked. She inspired deep respect. They approached her and she reacted. The fly was swallowed by its petals.
Wet, he felt it melting away. He could not help diluting himself. He was destroyed by the friction against that naked body. At least it got him clean.
He moved his arm in desperation. He was lost. The score, maliciously, was hiding the right beat from me. And the orchestra sounded horrible.
It often happens to me. But it's not always the same. The water under the loose tiles can always get higher. And it stains.
He was swimming placidly in the pool. He felt the sound of raindrops. His muscles ached. Lightning killed him. He will no longer swim at all.
I need a denser, heavier silence. Only then will I be able to concentrate and make the music come out of me. The orchestra is waiting for him.
It did not exist a moment ago. He traveled swiftly to the bridge. He stepped onto the lid. It jumped into the air and transmitted the sound of the violin to your ear.
There was no blood. Again you felt an axe against your body. A thud. He was dying. No blood. Homicide of an aspen.
She couldn't sleep. And I wasn't going to be able to until he woke up. He wouldn't let me. I was snoring in an exaggerated way.
I couldn't move. I was forced to freeze my face in a ridiculous gesture. They would repeatedly glare at me. I hated the torture of photographers.
I didn't know why I felt such pain in my hand. Then I looked and realized that an elephant had sat on me.
It never struck me that I had so much strength. I can lift several times my own weight. But that's normal among ants.
She never thought he was a murderer. He gave him a horse, and for no apparent reason, stabbed him in the throat. He didn't have time to complain.
Another page. It's hard to finish such a long book. Why did I start reading wounded? The blood is not enough to finish the chapter.
Once again I hit my head on the balcony of that house. While they stitched the wound, I understood that it was my fault. For being so tall.
I was late again. I missed the six o'clock train. Now I will have to wait for half an hour lying on the tracks.
Another attempt. I raise my left foot and lower my right. But I have to do it with great coordination. The engine stops. I clutch it.
I could feel the vibration of her body. Her warmth. I envied the serenity she showed as I stroked her hair. That's what cats are like.
I could see a perfect parabola. It was still, though the water building it as it came out of a hose would inevitably end up falling.
First a light breeze was felt. Then the whistling sound was heard. Before I could hide, the wind had taken me with it.
First I felt the headache. I woke up. Why would I have left my clothes behind? I was home, even though my shirt had blood stains on it.
First I took the train. Then a bus. Two hours passed and I still hadn't reached my destination. Where was I going? Far away.
Soon I was going to end up falling. Even if he moved his waist in desperation. I was going to fall, because that's the fate of every ula ula hoop.
I can walk through walls. Since this morning. My body seeps through brick and plaster. I understood it when I saw myself still in bed.
I can hear the same thing several times, with total clarity. Always the same melody repeats itself. It's the last time I put on a minimalist record.
I breathed. But I couldn't do it. Something was entering my lungs but I still felt like I was drowning. It took me a long time to die.
I breathe heavily in a desperate attempt to forget the pain, but it's still too strong. I must not lift such heavy boxes.
I knew everything was full of those tiny little robots even though I couldn't see any of them. He was stunned at the advancement of nanotechnology.
There was a faint noise as the contents of a glass were attacked with waves that forced it to heat up. It all ended with a beeping sound.
He felt his body getting hotter and hotter. A series of successive thunderclaps resounded inside him. He was killing unintentionally, poor machine gun.
I felt so hot I thought I was dying. Melted. I was sweating drops and drops. I was dehydrated. Luckily the weather changed in time.
Its scent dispersed into the room a little at a time, as I watched the smoke twisting in the air. The allergy was beginning to close my throat.
It was slowly rising and dispersing into the air. It painted a white line never the same. No doubt about it, that smoke stick, he was an artist.
So sure was he that he was doing everything right that when he swam crookedly he protested the slope of the pool.
My eyes are closed but I see. I am intrigued. I touch myself and confirm that my eyes are closed. I look for a mirror. My eyelids are transparent.
The water trembles because the glass trembles. The glass shakes because the table shakes. The table because the floor trembles. Undoubtedly they are forceful footsteps.
They all sneezed at the same time looking at the sky. They did it so synchronized that the clouds moved. The rain went somewhere else.
After breathing in as much air as he could he dove in. The water was freezing cold and even if he opened his eyes he could see nothing. He had decided to drown.
A repeated clicking sound. Always the same click, it produced opposing splashes. Never again would the water dance the same choreography.
An infinite effort had to be made. Although it was already ten o'clock in the morning, my eyelids seemed to be stuck together. I slept with conjunctivitis.
A white noise band could be heard from far away. I approached with great curiosity. Someone was washing the car with a pressure washer.
A huge series of clicks sounded in the room. Such a spectacle had never been seen before. The monkey was good at playing Tetris.
A bead of sweat trickled down his forehead. The heat was melting him. He thought it was a cruel way to die. Poor ice cube.
A mixture. A cut. A flourish. But that wasn't what was magical, it was what happened next. A flash and the two of hearts disappeared.
One stone after another. They all produced a hollow noise in my head. I was already close to losing consciousness. I had no helmet.
A portion of the musculature contracting involuntarily. It won't stop any time soon. If I open my mouth, I can't help but produce a sound.
A sum. I pass dividing to the other side. Now I do the square root of b and multiply by 5. Something goes wrong. The calculator no longer works.
Once again I moved my arm over her body. It was warm and now much softer. The chair had held a lot. The sandpaper was discarded.
One can move forward in different ways. In my case I do it silently, trying not to let anyone hear me. It is easier to spy that way.
I watched the traffic lights, the pedestrian paths.... When it seemed that nothing was going to stop the bus, a weak old lady rang the bell.
I saw only a few lines. They were made in pencil. Just a few lines. It was as if a writer wrote a story in twenty-two words.
We live condemned to see a bar that fills up. Connections are faster and faster. We more impatient.
And that's how I cut that board with a hole puncher, making one hole next to the other. It's just that sometimes you don't have a handsaw.
And until a moment ago I was reading a book. Just before the story sucked him in. Now the reader lives inside his book.
And the molecule vibrated with a frequency that was comfortable for him, like all the molecules inside that tube. Then, something reached an ear.
And it rang again. I was already bored and felt like leaving. The same little song again. Nothing worse than a minuetto with repetitions.
Almost there. There you can see the finish line. It happened! The planet has just finished another lap around the sun. And it didn't get dizzy!
The poor thing was already dizzy. The spinning was making her sick. On top of that, the axle that had touched her was uncomfortable. Poor wheel.
Here we are, we are getting closer and closer. At any moment the planet finishes turning around and summer returns. It keeps repeating itself.
