Although I remember my name perfectly well I will not tell you until the end of this story.
There are two very good reasons for my temporary anonymity.
The first is that my name is not only mine, I had the misfortune to learn that in reality, this name designates all individuals of my race.
I am not exaggerating if I tell you that at first it was hard and depressing.
It took me a long time to convince myself that I am somebody, despite knowing that my name can be spelled with a lowercase letter.
All the time between that day when I knew what I shouldn't know and that day when I finally convinced myself that I didn't need a name to be me, I was tormented by the same question.
Why did I think that knowing more would make my post-retirement times more enjoyable and less boring? Until that moment I was proud of myself, I had fulfilled every single one of my obligations until I deserved a pleasant retirement.
When I found out, the past no longer mattered.
I was desperately seeking to build a life of my own that I had never had.
The second and even better reason for not sounding my name in this first paragraph is that the vast majority of potential readers of this text, and therefore of my story, know it.
What's the problem with them knowing it? If they knew my name at this point the reading would stop completely, frankly I myself would not read.
They would think that this story is fantastic and that nothing of what I am about to narrate was real at any time.
It is that you exist on another level, a much greater one, a level I was unaware of until I had accumulated a few days of satisfied curiosity in the library.
It is precipitous from the tree (the same as saying "it falls out of the woodwork") that you have a very different way of thinking about our country.
I cannot afford to make any mistake that would keep you from this dense concentration of letters.
These lines are my last hope.
It was one day, in the library, when I realized that I could be someone, fabricate even an infinitesimal slice of identity for myself by telling this story.
From that fraction of a second (because thought sometimes concentrates in really small temporal intervals) I stopped sleeping.
I dedicated myself without pause to researching about myself, my race, my country and even about things that happen beyond its borders.
All this nervous need to learn about everything has no other purpose than to develop the ability to tell my own story, but not from that insignificant place where I served my country but from some slightly more imaginatively panoramic point.
It is the telling of this story that makes me unique.
In it I am somebody.
I am not going to follow a chronological order, it would not make sense to tell the details of my existence in the order that for some reason they took in time.
Even so, and although it may seem contradictory, I am going to start at the beginning.
Because I would not be writing this if it were not for that light-hearted decision I made while I was bored.
I had worked all my life in the same job, without being promoted or fired.
When I found myself with nothing to do I had two choices.
Do nothing or something.
I decided on something.
The library is definitely huge.
The aisles are inordinately long.
Even today, having spent long periods of time thinking, I can't find the criteria that makes sense of its structure.
Those long corridors are strangely jumbled, it is impossible to find more than a few millimeters of straightness in its development.
The chaotic evolution of its walls is not containable in any architecturally sensible geometrical prism, nor is it susceptible to be dumped in a plan, although perhaps it hides behind one of those fractals that, according to some audacious thinkers, describe the forms of the universe.
I forgot to tell you that the library is only a part of one of the two buildings that make up the Operations Campus.
These two buildings were built with the same unknown criteria as the library.
Jumbled hallways and non-existent rooms.
One is to the west and the other to the east.
Although I did not have access to too much information regarding the distribution of the different control departments, I know that the East building (E) is the main place where the tasks of control and follow-up of an innumerable number of daily processes that take place in different parts of the country are carried out, in addition to planning different future activities and ordering the different priorities of the campus.
In the West building (O), among other things, they are dedicated to solve all the new problems that appear, for which there is not yet a solution protocol (PS) already designed (if there was one, the problem would be solved in the E building).
Let's say that in building O they are mostly dedicated to find global solutions making use of different levels and ways of thinking.
The library is in the E building although it can be accessed from the O building.
It was always strange to me that that country where everything was coldly calculated (I read this funny expression in the library), where everything happened with frightening punctuality and each of its inhabitants had a clearly delimited and perfectly distributed job, had in its Operations Campus such a mess.
I can't talk too much about the various control departments, I never worked in them and never will.
But my extended stay in the library gives me the right to feel confused.
I know (from having read some procedure manuals) that there are many organizational criteria applicable to a library.
Alphabetical order is internationally valued and I would hazard a guess that every library outside our country uses it.
You can always subdivide the material by alphabetizing it into groups.
Separating, for example, procedure manuals from historical record books.
Mysteriously, the library in Building E was not arranged in a linear fashion but was organized through endless webs of sometimes logical, sometimes ridiculous relationships.
You might imagine large two-dimensional webs like some of the ones built by those strange octopod animals in some of the volumes of those zoology treatises in the library.
But the webs of that book warehouse are anudadamente three-dimensional.
Any being in this world would be dumbfounded by such technology.
Because even without simple or linear criteria in its archives there is an autonomous program capable of giving the exact location of each despicable particle of information.
The problem arises when the person interested in consulting the library does not know exactly what he wants to consult.
The library program is capable of processing such a large amount of information that in other countries there is still no one who can even imagine such a volume of data.
Needless to say, the damn program had no mercy on me at any time.
Honestly, I would have liked it to be a million times slower.
During my days and nights in the library I learned many things, I had to read much more than I intended to because I didn't know exactly what I wanted to read.
That allows me today to describe in some detail the places where this story took place.
Later I learned that in other countries libraries store information in books and keep only the location of those books in their programs.
Ours does not have books.
I don't know if it ever had them but today one simply sits comfortably in front of a screen that is capable of showing you any of the infinite pages it contains.
I remember that when I entered the E building that day, it looked like a toad from another well.
It was unusual for retired employees to be walking around.
It took me some time to find the library.
I sat down in a free spot and... What was it I was looking for? I hadn't thought about what kind of information I was interested in.
After a few minutes of stillness and intellectual silence I decided to try to unravel the architectural mystery of the campus buildings.
I figured that their plans must exist and if they did they had to be in the library.
It was the first and last disappointment in the mecca of information.
There was no blueprint, document, article or employee linked to the construction of the buildings.
Paranoid, I developed a conspiracy theory which hypothesized that these plans existed but were kept secret (I was never able to confirm it).
Today, as I write these lines, I am chewing on all the contradictions I found in the library.
I cannot explain why, but there are many inconsistencies between the reality of my country and the information contained in that place.
Many of the data were not properly dated, although it was possible to deduce approximately their date of entry, according to those that were dated, they were related.
My curiosity, instead of diminishing with each reading, shot up exponentially.
As I told you I never found the plans of the campus buildings, but I did find plans and detailed descriptions of many of the power plants, routes and means of communication.
Today I know I will die before I know why those plans and lengthy articles I am telling you about post-date the construction and commissioning of the various plants and such.
It is as if someone unknown had built everything and then left, leaving in the country a bunch of ignorant inhabitants who had to survey every corner of the territory and dedicate countless hours to unravel the mysteries of how each piece works.
Perhaps that work is still not finished and today they are still racking their brains to find out how the campus buildings were constructed.
I will try to describe those places that were my working environment when I recounted my life in my working days.
However, I can't resist, I need to tell you about what, today from a distance, was the most exciting discovery.
It happened during an afternoon when sleep threatened me.
I went for a walk (although the building forced me to take many), without leaving the E building at any time.
Building in which everything looked the same although it was not necessarily so.
Once past the library I went down a few levels and wandering erratically ended up in a huge hall.
It looked like a miracle.
A piece of surface, though not very large, in which one could decide which way to move.
Finally a nook that wasn't a hallway in that maze.
The ceiling was smaller than the floor, which required the walls to become trapezoidal.
If one manages to construct in his imagination a prism with a rectangular base and roof (of different sizes), he will immediately appreciate that the walls must be inclined so as not to allow leaks.
Those who are able to draw such a hologram in some corner of their mind will, for the most part, imagine a room in which the roof is centered with respect to the base and the walls (with equal slope) inclined inward.
This is a general and mathematically regular case, but it does not correspond to the shape of that room.
The ceiling was arranged at the height of one of the edges of the base, ensuring that one of the walls was completely vertical.
And it made perfect sense because two huge screens rested on that wall.
At first I didn't understand why they were projecting the same image.
It took me a long time to realize that there was actually a slight difference between the two, as they were not taken from the same point.
Why would someone project two virtually identical images on two different screens? That was explained by a third, slightly smaller screen, placed on a table in the center of the room.
The latter received the two original images from the wall and superimposed them, achieving a very realistic sense of depth.
I was trying to explain to myself how this original machine worked when an idea came rushing out of my deepest thoughts.
I was looking outside! Evidently on one of the borders of the country there were two huge telescopes that allowed me to obtain information about what was happening outside.
Now not only was the machine interesting, but also the images I was seeing.
I cannot say how long I remained static in front of such prodigies.
When I came back to life I knew that if I wanted to get more information about that room there was only one place to get it.
I had to go back to the library.
Today, as I look back on that afternoon, I realize that I had a great deal of luck, or the invaluable help of fate.
Despite the jumbled corridors of the E building I found the library as if on the floor someone had painted me the safe way.
I sat down before the screen of that place of which, after so many days of awakened and resolved curiosities, I was already the undisputed owner.
Telescope.
The library began to spit out articles in droves.
The vast majority mentioned a certain Galileo Galilei (what a funny name, by God!), but I didn't find what I was looking for.
So many millions of words did the library spit out that it took me two days to come across a small article that mentioned something about "seeing the outside".
The title caught my attention: "Visual perception".
Eureka (another word I learned at the library).
That's when I asked the library program for items related to "perception."
At the top of the list, a captivating title appeared: A Treatise on Perceptual Systems.
I read for quite a while and became indigested with certainty.
The treatise mentioned not only the room I had accidentally visited with all its complex functioning but also four other no less interesting systems.
The text instructed about the five possible ways through which the country obtained information from the outside.
My imaginations about giant telescopes were not far from reality.
I learned, by reading a lot, that such instruments were located at the highest point of the country.
They made it possible to obtain images of things that were really far away.
Once the images were obtained, they were encoded by means of some particle with certain electrical properties that traveled through a complex network of cables to the room that I met by chance.
After being decoded, they were projected on the first screens and after the two images were composed on the third screen, they were interpreted and translated by a complex intelligent system that encoded them again in a similar way and sent them to the Department of Information Management (DAI).
In the IAD a countless number of employees decided which parts or elements of the image were important and which were not.
The IAD procedure manual stated that ten to twenty percent of the information should be compiled into short films and stored in the library and the rest discarded, which had its (totally logical) cause in the fact that the IAD computer system had a limit in its data transfer capacity, making it impossible to archive the totality of the information obtained.
It was possible for the short films to be reinterpreted in the Department Optimizing Archive (DOA) where the images could be downsampled to text (which takes up much less space in the library).
For the five avenues I mentioned above (i.e. all of them) it was always the IAD that was responsible for making the decision as to which data to discard.
The first of the remaining systems was used to extract information from the air coming from external territories.
I didn't understand it very well, but it worked by studying the composition of the gas by probing small volumes.
It determined what substances it was carrying and notified the IAD immediately.
The next mechanism picked up different pressure waves.
It was the only system that picked up information from any direction.
It had two large rooms in which, by means of a complex system of three rigid pieces that transmitted the received waves to a membrane, the information was encoded and reported to the DAI.
Another system obtained the information through different imported products and composed a description that was sent to the DAI determining the proportion of four very common components in all imports.
The last channel of information input was an endless network of sensors of two different types distributed along and across the border.
As can be imagined, it was the largest system.
However, it was the simplest in operation.
It had temperature and contact sensors.
The contact sensors were the least complex, they only reported the impact of external agents, while the temperature sensors sent a precise caloric magnitude.
Discarding the imaging system, the other four required an additional step before the information could be sent to the library.
While the IAD was responsible for discarding most of the data, the rest went to the Department of Synthesis and Sensing (DSS).
At the DSS, they interpreted the information coming from the IAD.
With the data obtained from the air, pressure waves and imports the job was relatively simple, but what came from the contact and temperature sensors was totally useless.
It was a matter of two pieces of data that were always held together, a position at which the contact had been received and the temperature of the (hitherto unknown) impacting element.
From the number of sensors activated and their positions it was possible to determine the size and even the shape of what was trying to cross the border, but this was not enough.
In the DSS these data were collated with those obtained through images and pressure waves trying to accurately determine the origin and possible causes and effects of the various attackers of our geographical boundaries.
That treaty seemed endless but at some point it ran out.
I don't think it would be difficult for any future reader of this text to imagine the quiet intoxicating pleasure I enjoyed for a few days.
I was overwhelmed by the imposing technological infrastructure of my country.
The days that followed I browsed the library with great serenity.
Slowly I read about one subject, about another... It was while I was diving oxygenated when I knew what I should not know.
I began to discover some strange things... In the library there were, in addition to treatises, manuals and historical records, a large number of items catalogued as fictitious, unreal.
I was able to find out that these were different kinds of works of art made by a particular author for no useful purpose.
In a sense, that a library kept fantastic stories seemed much more normal than the fact that it kept these endless technical treatises.
The strange thing was that none of them were complete.
I kept finding partial quotations, all with the proper reference that made it possible to find the complete work.
The complete work was never in the library.
Some quotations were curious, others incomprehensible: "the essential is invisible to the eye".
What is an eye? This new mystery slowly awakened my curiosity and at one point I made a tragic decision that would mark my life forever.
I took it upon myself to investigate the history of my own country.
And here everything became dark.
There was not a line in all that store of knowledge that spoke of our country's past.
With increasing desperation I searched and read.
I discovered that practically all the information in the library had been obtained from the outside with those blessed five strange systems of perception.
No one was interested in recording what was going on inside? Despair was beginning to alternate with disbelief.
It didn't make sense! I began to widen my search in the hope of finding something that would sedate me.
I could have given up.
If I had, these lines I am writing now would not exist.
Since the beginning of my adventure in the library I had grown a lot, I had learned many new things and had trained my thinking.
I found it less and less difficult to interpret and associate certain ideas.
If it were not for that, if I had not developed a certain capacity for abstraction, the strange drawings in that book would not have caught my attention.
I would never have stopped before that treatise on cytology.
As I mentioned at the beginning of this story, this discovery, which meant getting to know the reality of my country (although perhaps I should never have called it that again) enveloped me in a very dark and melancholic depression.
For weeks at a time I did not return to the library.
What was the point? Most of the time I thought how pleasant it would be to die at once.
Time passed very slowly in front of me and at times it looked sad, too, as if its passing had no meaning anymore.
Who was I now? I had no name of my own, and this made me think that I was nobody.
The darkness did not let me see that identity is not hidden in our name, but that it is above the name that designates us.
That terrible feeling of being something despicably small as time went by was getting a little clearer and gave way to a deep silence.
I fell silent.
At first completely.
I became willfully deaf.
Still I couldn't help but reflect again on what had happened to me.
I could not stop thinking about all that life in the service of my country, which being now depressing and insignificant, had once been my reason for living and my pride.
The depression was pushed aside and I went back to thinking with some effervescence.
I don't remember now how long it took me, but in a moment, I was enlightened.
I could be nobody.
Even without having a name of my own and being identical to millions of other individuals of my race, it had been I, and not another, who had discovered a wealth of wonders in the library.
I was the one who visited the hall of screens.
I read quotations from incomplete works of art and learned funny expressions.
I studied the Treatise on Perceptual Systems.
I existed and I didn't need a name.
And it was that day when I decided that I would return to the library to continue unraveling the mysteries of my country (I insist on calling it that), but no longer to learn for the sake of learning, but to be able to tell you the story of my life.
Because it would not be possible for me to do so if I did not know what I know now.
And although by now you already know a great part of it, there is still a long way to go.
That is why I am about to tell you about my working life and especially about the days when we, who worked for the security of our country, had to give our lives to defeat the worst of the invasions.
As I have already mentioned, my job and that of my entire race was to ensure the security of the country.
While tranquility reigned it was a truly monotonous job.
We spent the whole day going around, patrolling the territory.
We would sail through the pipelines.
I remember the first few times it was a lot of fun.
It was a large network of channels in which a fairly fast current was induced.
There were in both directions, which allowed us to go anywhere, fast and without fatigue.
The system of hemoducts was key to the survival of the country, not only served as transportation to all employees, who like us required to go from one place to another, but was also used to distribute mail and different products to every corner of our sovereignty.
The current of its channel was induced by a gigantic distribution pump located in the central region of the territory.
The pump worked like any other (electrically), and as can be easily deduced, it consumed a great deal of energy.
The routing, size and flow rate of the various branches of the canal network were specially designed to minimize energy expenditure.
The energy was obtained basically through two large plants.
One made use of a useful component present in a gas brought into the country from abroad.
The gas entered through pneumatic pipelines (much larger than the hemoducts), was drawn into the interior thanks to a vacuum pump (of enormous size if compared to the distribution pump).
The gas was stored in two large chambers for the duration of the extraction process of the useful component.
Once the extraction was finished, the gas was expelled through the same pneumatic pipelines, but not before discharging various gaseous residues.
The useful component obtained from the gas was immediately dumped into the hemoducts and circulated through them in all directions, with employees dedicated to collecting the necessary quantity in different parts of the country.
The other plant consisted of a complex combination of devices that broke down certain imported products.
They did this through different stages.
Basically, the process consisted of obtaining a specific substance from the different incoming products, thus synthesizing the energetic matter into a single molecule.
This was very convenient, because it was also transported through the hemoducts, it was collected in the different points of the country and being a unique substance, only the collecting employees were trained in the treatment of that substance, which meant a great saving of time in the training of human resources.
The speed of the flow in the pipelines, the pace of work in the power plants and every detail related to these systems were permanently monitored at the operations campus.
Over time, the permanent walk through the pipelines ceased to be something fun and curious.
It became as routine as any other task that we constantly performed in our job.
As long as everything was working properly, the surveillance of the country was quiet.
We would spend hours, days and months on end walking and touring without taking action.
As in any defense task, the difference between suppressing the threat quickly and suffering a hard and grueling battle was discovering the invaders as soon as possible.
It was very rare that an invader could filter through the borders.
I now know and imagine how difficult it could be to break through that vast sensor network.
Even if any invader did make it, the IAD would immediately inform the DF (easily guessed defense department), which through the courier system would alert nearby areas sending also those of our race, who knowing precisely the position of the attack used to neutralize the threat without problems (although sometimes the invaders would mimic the local population making our job difficult).
Much more common were the problems caused by an invader filtered through the entry routes to the power plants.
In the first one, the volume of gas entering the chambers was such that it was very difficult to detect invaders in small groups.
It was even easier to intrude and overcome the controls of imported products.
Needless to say, we are not talking about naive invaders.
Illegal immigration is easily discovered in the early stages of control and our work is not too much effort.
It is the trained spies who do pose a major challenge.
Generally speaking, all attempts to invade our country begin with an infiltration attempt by a small group of agents.
Why? First of all, because they try to go unnoticed in order to reach the pipelines.
Once they dive into their plentiful streams, they can disperse and hide in different corners.
Moreover, they know perfectly well that if they manage to reach the channels they reduce everything to a melee, while in the entry routes there are different defense systems that put them at a disadvantage.
If a threat is detected in the gaseous energy plant, the operations campus immediately reduces the volume of gas entering the plant, reducing its production to an indispensable minimum.
Various safety systems along the pipelines can also be activated from the campus.
If, on the other hand, a threat is discovered along the incoming channel of imported products, they can be ordered to be returned.
If the synthesis process has been initiated, a preventive operation is deployed, keeping the threat locked up in the plant.
The spies, not very suicidal, escape (if they can).
That monotonous life, in which every now and then I had to neutralize some weak threat or get bored traveling through every corner of the country, had a month of pure adrenaline.
It was at first an invasion that was stealthily brewing in the interior of the country, and eventually turned into a war.
A terrible war, with cruel and exhausting moments.
We knew all along that outside the country there could be individuals as capable as those on the operations campus who solved problems and devised strategies in an intelligent manner.
What would happen if one day an equally capable invader infiltrated? Could we defeat him? Chaos.
While no one denies that war is terrible, there is hardly any other situation that demands such symbiosis among all the inhabitants of a country.
During war there is no margin for error of any order.
Everything becomes terrible and to resist seems impossible while trying to discover the way to put an end to the enemy.
For the duration of the war great differences are set aside and national identity is clearly glimpsed.
In the library I learned that many wars are usually given a name, and while officially there was not one for ours, I will allow myself a little poetic license.
The Monueani War engulfed the country in misery, weakening our defenses and destroying entire regions, near and far.
It meant not only the loss of civilians and soldiers, but the destruction of much of our infrastructure.
Monueani was the consummation of a threat.
The one that lurked beneath every failed attempt to invade us.
Monueani was the result of a small portion of ineptitude that we had.
The war dissolved our immunity.
It forced us to recognize our own weakness.
I can't say exactly when the first invader filtered in.
I don't know, nobody knows.
The operations campus monitored the volume of gas entering the plant's chambers as usual.
Everything was clean.
Nothing unusual could be seen in the pipelines, everything was working normally.
Alarm.
In the control departments of the campus a failure was detected in one of the absorption terminals of the useful gas component.
I did not explain it before, but inside the two huge chambers there were a large number of terminals in charge of extracting the useful component from the total volume of the gas.
Alarm.
Another terminal fails.
Campus employees try to deduce the cause.
They cannot find it.
As a result of an as yet unknown cause two of the terminals in chamber E fail and abruptly lose performance.
Within minutes the failure becomes severe, performance is minimal.
On campus, concern knocks at the door and tension begins to rise in those responsible for the control of the E-camera.
Alarm.
Alarm.
Two other terminals fail.
A message arrives.
It is written by those responsible for the control of the O camera.
In the opposite chamber also failures are detected in, so far, five absorption terminals.
At the same time the head of control department E answers his colleague from O and declares a technical alert for the power plant.
The plant's workload is reduced to fifty percent and specialized crews are sent to assess the damage.
A bad feeling floats through the control departments.
The first crew enters the E chamber.
Soon all communication is lost.
The problem does not seem to have a purely technical origin.
The second crew inspects the condition of one of the O-camera terminals.
The fault is immediately apparent, the terminal was visibly damaged.
The crew prepares to check other terminals to report the damage assessment.
This is definitely not a normal, technical failure.
It is an attack.
Someone deliberately damaged the terminals.
After a brief discussion, the crew informs the campus of their assessment.
As they relate their technical assessment and try to explain what happened to the campus, the communication is cut off.
The O control department gets to hear the last word.
Attack.
Alarm.
Polyrhythmically the alarms start to be shouted one after the other.
From department E comes notification of new damaged terminals.
The employees become desperate.
Nobody understands what is happening.
