White moves.
Fear.
A war that would teach me many things.
Perhaps the last ones.
Who said that he who throws the first stone has the advantage? Initiative.
Walking on the marked path is much easier than opening spaces between the weeds.
Ironic.
My world is not very complex, in this plain full of parallel and perpendicular lines, there is no polychrome.
Or maybe there is, maybe I am the one who sees in black and white.
Doubt.
I'm just a private, I don't make decisions, I hope that those who are above me make the right ones.
The troops begin to deploy on both fronts.
I notice a certain density of enemies on the left flank and no one seems to want to stop them.
Cruelty.
Sometimes our leaders sacrifice part of their army, they sacrifice us just to keep the enemy entertained.
Our lives seem to be worth nothing.
Luck.
I am on the far right, still quiet and safe, but not for long.
On the left flank the impact occurs.
The enemies catch up with us.
I can see in the distance, but I see it.
Our first casualties.
The enemy does not find it so easy.
Our archer on the left does his job well and from the tower other archers make it difficult for them.
The king observes everything with coldness, he evaluates how to continue.
Our archers from the ground describe fabulous paraboloid diagonals, the arrows never seem to fall, they try to resist those 9.8 meters over seconds squared that force them down.
Impossible.
The effort is useless, the arrows do not reach their destination and when they arrive they give too much time to the soldiers to prepare the shields.
They begin to buzz arrows to this side.
The enemy's front, in spite of everything, is still orderly.
Desperation.
I begin to get impatient, I know that my moment is approaching, that moment when I have to approach danger at the risk of ending the war for me.
Another mad attempt to disrupt the enemy has taken place.
The deployment of our cavalry.
Perhaps too early but in an attempt to generate confusion on the opposing side.
The enemy moves very fast.
Our right flank is quickly reduced.
It seems that from the tower the arrows had diabolical precision.
Hope.
I discover that on the edge of the left flank there is still a rider.
He breaks through with indomitable strength among the enemies who fall in his path, never to rise again.
Finally the enemy becomes disorderly.
Desperate shouts are heard, archers from the tower try to stop him.
The ground archer stares at him, our rider for a moment stops.
Time seems to stop as well.
Force.
Our rider lets out a war cry, raises his sword and from my position I can see all the arrows that stopped his shield stuck like pins in silk.
A horn sounds in our towers to encourage our last rider, he goes straight to the archer who shoots him twice.
The first arrow is parried by the shield, but the second one is thrust into the right arm of our brave man with fury.
The scream of pain is suspended in the air, while our sharp knight throws the shield to take the sword with the arm that is still unharmed.
Unbelievable.
Our horseman reached the archer and pierced him mercilessly with his sword.
The confusion was already enormous on both fronts.
I was still standing still although I would have preferred to move.
Our rider was inside the enemy lines and had left his best archer on the ground.
From the tower they could not shoot at him because of the risk of wounding one of their own.
I think some of us came to believe that he could take them all on, that he would win the battle single-handedly.
Perhaps it was foolish to believe it, the truth is that he could not return, when he turned around trying to retreat he would be covered with arrows.
Surprise.
Whoever was on the right of the enemy king turned a quarter turn and stared at our rider.
He was a huge soldier, I don't know what rank he would have, but he was reckless, everyone feared him.
He threw his spear against the horse and our rider fell to the ground.
He approached slowly and again a deathly silence rose from the earth.
Our rider did not yield, the noise of the swords' blows reached my ears, the war seemed to have stopped, we all watched this duel.
The daredevil launched a thrust, but our rider ducked in time, a lock of his blond hair followed the trajectory of the blade.
Time was stretching out and every second lasted a century....
the swords began to move slowly.
The end.
The daredevil charged again and this time he was right.
Our rider fell to the ground and his bravery went with his soul elsewhere, I wish I knew where.
I heard all the hubbub again.
Shouts, arrows whizzing, and now I could hear horses galloping.
Terror.
They were not from our side, the enemies had launched the cavalry against us.
The horses with their riders looked bigger and bigger.
The moment arrived that one day would come, a moment marked by that order, that order that required me to move with my comrades of the line in an attempt to stop the enemy cavalry.
If we failed there was not much chance left, the cavalry would reach our lines and it would be all over.
If we succeeded maybe there was hope yet.
The horns sounded again and the world became insignificant to me, the only thing that existed in my world was my shield, my sword and my enemies.
I ran and screamed, they were already close.
I moved quickly and wounded the first horse I reached, it collapsed on the ground and before its rider could start to get up I finished him off.
I heard that silence again, everything stopped again, I looked to the left flank and discovered that that dream of stopping the cavalry was fulfilled, it cost us several lives but we stopped them.
Now the confusion was even greater, I was dizzy, I heard shouts and noise everywhere, the enemies had rearranged what was left of their second line while the first line was almost non-existent.
I looked back and understood that our troops were not much better off.
The archers began firing at us.
I knelt behind my shield and waited as I felt the arrows impacting the parched wood.
Our king remained silent, as if waiting for the enemies to move, if I had had him two meters away I would have blown his shield over his head.
Stalemate.
The enemy moved, but not with a great display, only the daredevil began to advance.
The enemy bombards marked their passage from the towers and the arrows stopped buzzing.
I stood up again and saw the daredevil approaching another of the soldiers, his sword described a huge circle and threw our soldier into the air, who no longer got up.
One of our archers tried to shoot him but the arrow missed him, the daredevil advanced again and another one of us fell, again the arrows were unsuccessful and again another soldier was out of battle.
One of the archers approached, fired, the arrow was going directly to the chest of the daredevil but he deflected it with his sword.
Doubt.
He turned around and started marching towards me, the drums were getting louder.
I couldn't see his eyes, his head was covered with a hood, but I was sure the daredevil saw mine.
I was paralyzed, a very deep fear did not allow me to move.
The daredevil reached for me, he raised his long thin sword, the sunlight reflected off its edge.
He began to descend and I still did not react, the adrenaline forced me to move at the last instant and I dodged the big weapon, I turned quickly and moved a few steps away.
The daredevil turned around and took off his hood.
Revelation.
It was a woman, I froze again but this time not because of the fear I felt but because of the surprise that invaded me.
And again I reacted millimeters away from losing my mind.
Courage surfaced in me as sweat had done since I ran, I again outwitted her attack and with a scream I launched my response.
I pierced his belly and did not stop, the sword went all the way in.
But I saw no blood.
Even the daredevil, I correct, the daredevil who had uncovered her face with her beautiful light blue eyes stood unpunished, unharmed.
I had mortally wounded her! As she moved her arm backwards so that her sword would gain enough momentum, I understood.
I was only a private and I thought the king decided what I should do.
Wrong.
Even the woman in front of me, the king's right-hand woman, had no more authority than I did.
The same was true for the archers, the cavalry, the companies in the towers.
My world was governed by a law that I did not see, a law totally external to our non-polychromic plain of parallel and perpendicular lines.
My sword was worthless because it was not my turn to kill but to die.
It no longer mattered how the battle continued because I would not live to see it.
Deluded.
And I still believed that if I reached the bottom of the enemy lines I would reach glory just by taking the last step.
We were all puppets.
Puppets of some otherworldly master who decided who died and who lived with cold cruelty.
Slaves to the amusement of others who didn't even know how to put on their armor.
We lived the tragedy that someone else drew for us.
In our world freedom did not exist, neither for the plebs nor for the nobles.
I would have understood many other things had it not been for the fact that at that moment the daredevil pierced my body.
I fell slumped between the lines.
I closed my eyes and stopped hearing.
I still had the sword inside my body but I no longer felt the cold.
